The Joe Rogan experience. Dude, I didn't know. I was listening to your podcast.
I didn't know that you were involved in the rescue of Jessica Lynch.
That was the second target that we hit in the first invasion of my rack.
That's crazy. It was an odd series of events. The, you know, we went over there.
Um,
I had just finished the selection process for the east coast command and they
actually, uh, there are what would be the best way to describe it.
There are multiple squadrons inside of that command,
all tasked with, they all have the same skillset, but you need multiple.
So one can be deployment while another one is training.
And the other one is resting. You wanna get into a, you know, rotation cycle.
So at the end of selection,
an X number of people get partition off to each one of those.
And it takes time to get up to speed because the selection tactics and the way
that you train are they're good,
but you get better as you were working with the guys with more experience,
specifically the real world experience.
And so they pulled us outta selection about a month early and sent us over to
augment the cars, eye detail in Afghanistan at the very tail end. I mean,
nothing happened. We basically, you know,
you're a deterrent at that point and it's one of the worst missions because you
can't, it's very reactive security, detail stuff.
You can't really do anything until somebody else does something.
So you're already behind the power curve. It's my least favorite mission set,
I think. But we came back from that and then in the Intel started, um,
kicking off for Iraq and they sent us over to Saudi Arabia and we were there for
probably somewhere between seven to 10 days.
That's where I watched Bush give the speech you knowsal Husein has,
I think it was 24 hours to comply or turned himself in whatever it was. And, uh,
we had already taken get,
we knew before going over there that there were two or three, uh,
objectives that we were gonna look at.
So we had already basically planned missions that we were gonna do while we were
in Virginia Beach. We were planning for stuff in Iraq.
So we continued the planning in, uh, Saudi Arabia and the number one, uh,
the first target we hit was the number one chem bio target in Iraq.
So to do that, you have to get all your two on this. It's called mop gear,
mission oriented, protective posture. It's like a chemical chem, bio suit,
gas mask, which compounds a lot of stuff. You have all your normal on.
Anyway,
like there's guys carrying quickie saws in a hazmat suit with a gas mask on
breathing through a blower on their back, overworking the blower.
And it's amazing. Close to suffocation.
I've actually come inside of those gas masks.
It's the worst feeling ever like you're sucking so hard for air that the mask is
like sticking up against because you're not supposed to be physically exerting
yourself while you're wearing that thing. There's idea. A li it's just,
it's harder. It's be like putting the, uh,
cuz there's a canister on the side and how much weight do you carrying around in
those days? It was probably body weight plus 8,200 pounds. Jesus Christ.
That was about average.
And it trimmed down after that because the actual amount of real world
experience at that time was low and it drastically increased.
So you'd be like, you know,
I think I need this pocket and then you wouldn't need it for a month.
You're like,
I need to get rid of this pocket because it carries sweat and like backpack,
hunters, same kind of thing. Oh yeah.
The gear that I wore towards the end was substantially different than the gear
that I wore towards the beginning. I trimmed. I mean,
I think I probably had 10 magazines on me like that first target.
I think the last deployment I did, I would carry four,
four and one in the gun and no pistol. So it things changed over time,
but this just for weight, just for weight and for ability to move,
cuz then I would need less food and I would need less water and I'd actually be
mobile, but on this target.
So it was a four hour helicopter ride in we're sitting there.
We have all of our Mo gear on, but not our masks.
And we're doing a midair refuel on a C one 30. So you had a 47 double, you know,
the big double, uh, uh, uh, not propellers. It'd be, uh,
rotor blades on top of the helicopter.
They're hooked up next to a C one 30 inflight refueling missile goes underneath
the C one 30 is like, see you boys later, the hums out.
And it like how the C one 30 bailed when the missile flew in. Oh. Yeah,
I don't blame 'em for that either. They're literally a flying fuel tank. Uh,
but they had gotten enough gas and we had to hit the tanker on the way back as
well. But so you're just sitting there waiting for three and a half, you know,
three and three quarter hours. And about 10 minutes out,
you start getting your gas mask and stuff on.
Cause you get a stuff that drappe and you know, night vision goggles.
Have you ever looked through a pair night? Vision goggles? Yeah.
Your field of view sucks. It's terrible. It's weird.
Which is why you notice when people who are, are actually using them.
They will all constantly have movement in their head because they're increasing
their field of view and up and down.
And that's when you can orient them to a good offset to your eye.
Now imagine putting a gas mask in between your eye and the lens of the night
vision Goggle. Oh Jesus.
So you're taking already a limited field of view and putting it into a soda
straw. So <laugh> and mind you,
this is the first combat target I've ever been on. So <laugh> and you're 18.
Oh no, no. This 22. No, I went through, how old are you me? 42. I was in my,
no at the time this was in 2003. It was 25. Okay. 25.
Um, but you, you enlisted when you were really young. I was 17,
17 junior in high school. I signed paperwork when I was in junior.
In high school. You, I didn't, you still gotta graduate and then, you know,
continue on. But, uh, and I was in like the third or fourth, uh,
47 that went in. So you finally get all your stuff on, you know,
and you have a blower on your back.
So there's ways that you can help the canister.
If you just have the canister on your mask,
it's a lot like breathing through a fuse. Raws shoved in your mouth.
If you maintain a low enough heart rate and you're totally chill, you're fine.
But as your heart rate goes up and your demand, you know, for oxygen goes up,
you're really limited. So they have, you know, you can put 'em on your back.
It's a blower,
it's a battery powered blower that will basically push air into the mask.
And it gives you, I would say more buffer space.
It's like almost like a positive pressure. And if you're not doing much, it's,
you're really nice. It's just GM and aired in your face and it works well.
Unless you put your weapon sling over the top of that tube,
which is exactly what I did. Oh, which is awesome. Oh, it was great.
Jesus Christ. Great first experience. I lost my nods on my first target ever.
I went back and got 'em, but it was a show. What's nods, ni vision goggles. Oh,
okay. Things that you need to see at night and we'll get in trouble for,
if you lose like a <laugh>. It was terrible.
So we come in number one, chem bio target in Iraq.
And we had looked at it from the perspective of like air conditioning
specialists and, you know, from architects to what we,
we could encounter on the ground, potential threats,
satellite imagery of historical stuff, and we'd get there.
And by the time I even got on the ground,
there was already a firefigh going on.
The helicopter that I was in had 27 rounds come through the helicopter,
not a single person was hurt. Wow.
Like guys were like reaching up to like scratch their and like a round would
come through and MIS miss everybody. Jesus Christ. I, well, I take that back.
Uh, the door of understanding next to me got shot right in the head met about a
minute out. That was my first exposure to combat just over and wow.
Helicopter lands. And you go,
and by the time I got to the front door of that structure,
I was probably as close to be an unconscious
thisphyxiation is I often am doing, jujisu getting choked out.
Like the world is just coming down and instantaneously.
We could tell that it was, was a agricultural school.
Like the intelligence was so horribly and incredibly off when it came to that.
So I just ripped my mask off at some point,
cause I would've rather died from whatever horrendous disease could have been in
there then suffocate. And then, you know,
we cleared through it and I knocked my night vision goggles off with a
sledgehammer. I had to go back. It was a show.
So we get back from that the next morning we wake up and uh,
I remember having a cup of coffee with a buddy in mine. <laugh> I was like,
Hey man, I don't think we're gonna get out of this. If things keep going.
Like they did last night. And shortly after they out a few days after that,
we got word that, uh, Jessica had been captured.
So we forward staged and went up to uh Nazare. And
the information that we had going into the hospital is that it was a fetain
hotbed, like 50 to 500 people was the expected, uh,
amount of resistance that we could have. And we,
it could fit 27 people in the helicopter.
So that's what we launched with in the back of our head. And, uh,
fortunately we didn't meet any resistance inside of the structure and it
actually was kind of business as usual, looking back,
like there was nothing exciting about that target, uh,
whatsoever people in the modern day,
if they were to action that target now with the experience that they, they,
they wouldn't even register on the radar scope, the amount, the little,
or the little amount of resistance that was encountered outside of it just would
be another day at the office. But there, there was a public story of that.
And then there was a lot of dispute about whether or not there that that was
accurate. There was a, a, like I remember she actually took some,
she cleared up a lot of it. She, well,
she was not responsible for a lot of the things that were said, right.
Because she was deep into the repatriation process into, I mean,
her she's up to this day. When I met sat down,
I finally get to sit across the table.
She had never sat down and talked to somebody who was there. It was.
So when did you meet her? I went and had her on again. Yeah.
I had her on your podcast podcast when, uh,
it was one of the earlier episodes I went where she,
I didn't listen to though why didn't even know you had her on.
So she told her side of the story.
I told my side of the story and we were able to like fill the gaps and we sat
across the table just like this. And she still wears a brace.
She came and gave me a huge hug. I mean, I didn't know what to expect,
what happened to her physically. Um, man, I don't have the exact details,
but from my understanding,
the vast majority of her injuries came from when her Humvee wrecked. Um,
I do not believe she was buckled or strapped in, so she got just pounded. Um,
and she was not treated well. Um, you know,
it's got, eyes are gonna get the same, uh, I mean, bottom line,
you're gonna get raped if you're a male or a female. Um,
really? Oh yeah, for sure. And uh, if you get captured, oh yeah. You're,
you're going to, for sure. If you're a male or a female,
if you're a male or a female you're you're,
you're not gonna have a good Govet for sure. And, uh, again,
I'm not an exact expert on what happened specifically with her,
but from my understanding, she experienced that as well as, uh,
all the other medical issues. But when we,
she was in bad shape when we pulled her out of the hospital, for sure.
But the so, and I remember, um,
there were two people with us that were carrying video cameras and there was a
little bit of footage that was taken from that,
like when she was in the hospital bed, in the hospital and a lot,
the rest of it was from the cameras on the helicopters and some, you know,
the sensors overhead, but the narrative from that,
not a word was said by anybody that was there executing that objective or from
her. And I think my hypothesis is, you know,
we were a month in into that war. A lot of that war was based on,
we need to go rid this country and this dictator of their WMDs,
we hadn't found any from a PR perspective wise,
it wasn't probably gone as well as they wanted it to do.
And they wanted to have a PR victory, but the stuff that was said,
the stuff that made the news, all the stuff that got blown and on a proportion,
none of that came from the people that were actually there, what it came from,
all the layers on top of it, what was Bon? Cause I'm trying to remember.
I remember some of the first reports they were saying that she was gonna be the
first female medal of honor recipient that she had fought until she had her,
you know,
she expended her last round and then was finally overtaken and you talked to her
and she, she never even loaded her weapon, her weapon jammed. She,
she never said that she fought, you know what I mean?
I remember people talking about, she never said any of that.
So what do you think was doing that was that the government's PR I think people
are often in rush to talk in an educated manner about things they know nothing
about. Mm. I mean, it takes time to,
to understand the details of what happened. She was not in a,
in a head space to give a debrief. You know,
she was literally being flown probably to Germany for her first round of
countless surgeries. Um, and,
and she's gonna need to spend time with a therapist and a counselor.
I would assume she would, obviously I can't speak for her, but they're gonna,
you know, they're gonna wanna do a robust medical treatment.
And that's really not the time to dive into the details of her exact actions.
And we left the next morning and flew into Baghdad like three days later.
Like it was just another day on the job and you were off and running.
You just had, it was cool because, uh, it was the first rescue, uh,
U S P O w since world Wari.
And so the rescue of her was she was rescued from the hospital. Correct.
And so they had abused her and then taken her to a hospital.
I get a little granny on the details of what happened in between the wreck and
when we picked her up, because there are conflicting narratives. Um, there are,
there are, I dunno, what the correct word would be stories,
or there are reports that they attempted to put her into an ambulance and bring
her back to us forces. But at that same time,
the fedein were using ambulances as basically military fighting vehicles.
So they said that when they tried to do that,
the ambulance was shot at which makes sense. If there was a,
a trend of people using ambulance as a military vehicle,
that would make sense and they would get turned around.
So they might have tried to back, um, you know,
that hospital was being used as a fetaan staging point because they're, I mean,
they're not dumb people.
They understand we're not gonna likely bomb hospitals or religious structures.
So use them to their military advantage. Wow. Wow.
And this is your second, your, your second real. Yep.
Wow. Crazy. It's crazy.
That mean that story was a, a giant story. Yep. Uh, in,
in the media about the war and people trying to sort out what was true
versus what was the, you know, the publicity narrative,
I would say on average, take 90% of what you hear off the top 90%.
So.